# AI Assistant Telegram Bot


This is a versatile Telegram bot powered by the **OpenAI API**, offering users a range of interactive features. The bot facilitates AI-powered conversations, engaging quizzes, random fact generation, and dialogue with virtual personalities.

## Key Features

* **ChatGPT Dialogue**: Engage in a full conversation with the GPT model, which maintains context and dialogue history.
* **Interactive Quiz**: Test your knowledge on various topics like Python, JavaScript, Docker, and web technologies, with instant answer checking.
* **Talk to a Personality**: Conduct a role-playing dialogue where the bot responds as a famous personality, using specially configured prompts.
* **Fact Generator**: Receive unique and interesting facts generated by the AI.
* **User-Friendly Interface**: Navigate the bot easily using Telegram's inline keyboard and buttons.

---

## Project Structure

The project is organized for maximum readability and ease of expansion.
 ```
├── .env.example
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── resources
│   ├── images
│   ├── menus
│   └── prompts
└── src
├── bot
│   ├── handlers
│   └── init.py
├── settings
└── main.py
 ```
---

## Setup and Launch

### 1. Dependencies

Install the necessary libraries using `pip`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory by copying the contents from `.env.example`. Insert your API keys:
```# .env
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN="Your_bot_token"
OPENAI_API_KEY="Your_OpenAI_API_key"
```

### 3. Launch

Start the bot from your terminal:
```bash
python src/main.py
```
### 4. Usage

* `/start`: Starts the bot and displays the main menu.
*  `/gpt`: Initiates a dialogue with ChatGPT.
* `/quiz`: Starts an interactive quiz.
* `/talk`: Begins a conversation with a selected personality.
* `/random`: Generates a random fact.

All other interactions are managed through the easy-to-use buttons.